Mabuta - Welcome To This World
================================

The South African Jazz scene has been undergoing an exciting revival in the past few years, a new wave of restless, young artists have emerged; talented, fearlessly experimental an of course uniquely South African. One such rising star is Shane Cooper, bassist, composer and electronic producer from Cape Town. In 2017 Cooper launched a new project, pooling together exceptional talent from across South Africa to create a Mabuta, a truly modern South African Jazz band. Mabuta released their first album “Welcome to this World” on 16 February 2018.

The album is a tasteful fusion of electronic and acoustic elements, an ensemble affair between distinct musical lines which variously compete for dominance, play off each other, pull apart, only to resolve in satisfying harmony. From beginning to end the musical journey is dynamic and unpredictable and simultaneously coherent and logical, exploring diverse themes without sacrificing it’s consistent presentation. 

The first track “Welcome to this World” sets the tone for the album well with warm, understated drums and pleasant electronic keys, complimented by successively layered spacey elements. The smooth, jazzy sax and trumpet play off each other as the drums become increasingly groovy. The overall sonic impression is atmospheric and spacey, organically and digitally textured. 
The following song “Bamako Love Song” is somewhat more traditional with infectious sax and toe-tappingly groovy drums, only to breakout with heady cosmic keys right at the end. One of the more subdued songs “Beneath the Waves” features some synth elements alongside frenetic sax, another “As We Drift Away” is moody and atmospheric.

The exciting and provocative “Fences” is the most electronic leaning song on the album, with driving drums and dancy base groove throughout. The album’s characteristic electronic sound scape is played up the most in “Fences” to great effect, a hypnotic blend of modern Jazz sensibilities and sci-fi production. “Log Out Shut Down” brings an Afropop element to the album,  funky and triumphant with irrepressibly cheerful trumpets and cheeky keys.
The standout song on the album has to be Tafattala. A long, dramatic voyage of tension and relief. Variously subtle and intense, sparse and complex, undeniably riveting and expressive throughout.

“Welcome To This World” is a genuinely special album, a perfect example of South African Jazz in the 21st century, bringing together influences from wherever it sees fit. Modern Jazz and contemporary electronic music, artfully synergised to tranced the sum of it’s parts, set apart by uniquely African feel. Uncompromisingly experimental but completely mature and considered in it’s execution, the album is a glorious exercise in gleeful, youth-full musical expression.   
